[Source: GNU Proprietary Insecurity — https://www.gnu.org/proprietary/proprietary-insecurity.html]

This page documents security vulnerabilities, backdoors, and malware found in proprietary software.

[Source: GNU Proprietary Insecurity — https://www.gnu.org/proprietary/proprietary-insecurity.html]

! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --> Proprietary Insecurity - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation Skip to main text Free Software Supporter : JOIN THE FSF GNU Operating System Supported by the Free Software Foundation Site navigation Skip ABOUT GNU PHILOSOPHY LICENSES EDUCATION SOFTWARE DISTROS DOCS = MALWARE = HELP GNU AUDIO VIDEO GNU ART FUN GNU'S WHO? SOFTWARE DIRECTORY HARDWARE SITEMAP / Malware / By type / Proprietary Insecurity Nonfree (proprietary) software is very often malware (designed to mistreat the user).

This page lists clearly established cases of insecurity in proprietary software that has grave consequences or is otherwise noteworthy. Even though most of these security flaws are unintentional, thus are not malicious functionalities in a strict sense, we report them to show that proprietary software is not as secure as mainstream media may say. The difference between free and proprietary software in this respect is the handling of the bugs: free software users are able to study the program and/or fix the bugs they find, often in communities as they are able to share the program, while proprietary program users are forced to rely on the program's developer for fixes.

But if the developer does send a corrected version, it may contain new malicious functionalities as well as bug fixes. 2026-01 Windows encrypts disks for security, but reports all the encryption keys to Microsoft so that the encryption doesn't provide real security. 2025-08 Academic researchers have published an attack that led Google's supposed intelligence &#8239;[*] to obey malicious commands to manipulate devices in the user's home.

Giving Google control of your devices, or control of your own computing that you do on their servers, inevitably makes you vulnerable to Google. This announcement shows that the vulnerability includes third-party crackers&#8239;[**] too. 2025-06 Researchers discovered that the Meta Pixel and Yandex Metrica trackers, which are embedded in many websites, have been spying on behalf of the native Meta and Yandex Android apps respectively, by taking advantage of security flaws in the Android API.

2025-02 Apple stopped offering iCloud end-to-end encryption in the UK after the UK government demanded worldwide access to encrypted user data . Recall records everything users do on their computer and allows them to search the recordings, but it has numerous security flaws and poses a risk to privacy. As Recall cannot be completely uninstalled, disabling it doesn't eliminate the risk because it can be reactivated by malware or misconfiguration.

Meanwhile, it stores sensitive user information such as passwords and bank account numbers, showing that whereas Microsoft worries somewhat about corporate interests, it couldn't care less about user privacy. The icing on the Orwellian cake is that the server had a security fault which allowed absolutely anyone to activate those controls for any Kia car. Many people will be outraged at that security bug, but this was presumably an accident.

2024-08 A critical vulnerability in Windows systems that support IPv6 was discovered in 2024, 16 years after the first affected system was released. Unless the relevant patch is applied, an attacker can remotely execute arbitrary code on these systems. The same sort of vulnerability in a free/libre operating system would probably be discovered sooner, since many more people would be able to look at the source code.

Among other things, playing them on a PC requires Intel SGX (Software Guard Extensions), which not only has numerous security vulnerabilities, but also was deprecated and removed from mainstream Intel CPUs in 2022. 2023-12 A back door in Apple devices , present and abused from at least 2019 until 2023, allowed crackers to have full control over them by sending iMessage texts that installed malware without any action on the user's part. 2023-11 x86 and ARM based computers shipped with UEFI are potentially vulnerable to a design omission called LogoFAIL .

Instead of allowing Intel, AMD, Apple and perhaps ARM to impose security through tyranny, we should demand laws that require them to allow users to install their choice of startup software and make available the information needed to develop such. 2022-11 Hackers discovered dozens of flaws in the security (in the usual narrow sense) of many brands of automobiles . We are more concerned with security in the broader sense against the manufacturer as well as against unknown third parties.

It is clear that each of these vulnerabilities can be exploited by the manufacturer too, and by any government that can threaten the manufacturer enough to compel the manufacturer's cooperation. It is wise to insist on encryption software that is (1) free software and (2) studied by experts. 2022-08 A security researcher found that the iOS in-app browser of TikTok injects keylogger-like JavaScript code into outside web pages .

This would open the door to extensive surveillance, including by the Chinese government (to which TikTok has indirect ties). There is also a risk that the data would be stolen by crackers, and used to launch malware attacks. 2022-07 A bug in Tesla cars software lets crackers install new car keys , unlock cars, start engines, and even prevent real owners from accessing their cars.

A cracker even reported that he was able to disable security systems and take control of 25 cars . 2022-02 A security failure in Microsoft's Windows is infecting people's computers with RedLine stealer malware using a fake Windows 11 upgrade installer. 2022-01 A critical bug in Apple's iOS makes it possible for attackers to alter a shutdown event, tricking the user into thinking that the phone has been powered off .

2021-11 Some researchers at Google found a zero-day vulnerability on MacOS, which crackers used to target people visiting the websites of a media outlet and a pro-democracy labor and political group in Hong Kong. 2021-08 Various models of security cameras, DVRs, and baby monitors that run proprietary software are affected by a security vulnerability that could give attackers access to live feeds . 2021-07 The pegasus spyware used vulnerabilities on proprietary smartphone operating systems to impose surveillance on people.

It can record people's calls, copy their messages, and secretly film them, using a security vulnerability. A free operating system would've let people to fix the bugs for themselves but now infected people will be compelled to wait for corporations to fix the problems. 2021-07 A newly found Microsoft Windows vulnerability can allow crackers to remotely gain access to the operating system and install programs, view and delete data, or even create new user accounts with full user rights.

The security research firm accidentally leaked instructions on how the flaw could be exploited but Windows users should still wait for Microsoft to fix the flaw, if they fix it. Apple is already storing the encryption keys on these servers, obeying Chinese authority, making all Chinese user data available to the government. They say there is a 30-days grace period if you miss a payment but the grace period is no excuse to the insecurity.

2021-04 A zero-day vulnerability in Zoom which can be used to launch remote code execution (RCE) attacks has been disclosed by researchers. The researchers demonstrated a three-bug attack chain that caused an RCE on a target machine, all this without any form of user interaction. 2021-03 Over 150 thousand security cameras that used Verkada company's proprietary software are cracked by a major security breach.

Crackers have had access to security archives of various gyms, hospitals, jails, schools, and police stations that have used Verkada's cameras. It is injustice to the public for gyms, stores, hospitals, jails, and schools to hand security footage to a company from which the government can collect it at any time, without even telling them. It is unclear whether there are other holes and vulnerabilities in the program or not but history and experience tells us it wouldn't be the last disaster with proprietary programs.

2021-02 Researchers at the security firm SentinelOne discovered a security flaw in proprietary program Microsoft Windows Defender that lurked undetected for 12 years . (Please note that the article wrongly refers to crackers as " hackers ".) 2020-12 Commercial crackware can get passwords out of an iMonster , use the microphone and camera, and other things. The root problem is not the surveillance and censorship, but rather the power that Zoom has.

(Please note that the article wrongly refers to crackers as " hackers ".) 2020-12 Baidu apps were caught collecting sensitive personal data that can be used for lifetime tracking of users, and putting them in danger. More than 1.4 billion people worldwide are affected by these proprietary apps, and users' privacy is jeopardized by this surveillance tool. 2020-11 Apple has implemented a malware in its computers that imposes surveillance on users and reports users' computing to Apple.

The reports are even unencrypted and they've been leaking this data for two years already. 2020-06 A disasterous security bug touches millions of products in the Internet of Stings. 2020-04 The proprietary program Microsoft Teams' insecurity could have let a malicious GIF steal user data from Microsoft Teams accounts , possibly across an entire company, and taken control of an organization's entire roster of Teams accounts.

2020-04 Riot Games' new anti-cheat is malware; runs on system boot at kernel level on Windows. It is insecure software that increases the attack surface of the operating system. 2019-11 Internet-tethered Amazon Ring had a security vulnerability that enabled attackers to access the user's wifi password , and snoop on the household through connected surveillance devices.

Knowledge of the wifi password would not be sufficient to carry out any significant surveillance if the devices implemented proper security, including encryption. 2019-08 A series of vulnerabilities found in iOS allowed attackers to gain access to sensitive information including private messages, passwords, photos and contacts stored on the user's iMonster . The deep insecurity of iMonsters is even more pertinent given that Apple's proprietary software makes users totally dependent on Apple for even a modicum of security.

It also means that the devices do not even try to offer security against Apple itself. 2019-08 Out of 21 gratis Android antivirus apps that were tested by security researchers, eight failed to detect a test virus . This involves an apparently unintentional weakness in Android, exploited intentionally by malicious apps.

2019-05 Users caught in the jail of an iMonster are sitting ducks for other attackers , and the app censorship prevents security companies from figuring out how those attacks work. Apple's censorship of apps is fundamentally unjust, and would be inexcusable even if it didn't lead to security threats as well. 2019-03 The Medtronics Conexus Telemetry Protocol has two vulnerabilities that affect several models of implantable defibrillators and the devices they connect to.

This protocol has been around since 2006, and similar vulnerabilities were discovered in an earlier Medtronics communication protocol in 2008. This means you can't rely on proprietary software developers to fix bugs in their products. The third party vulnerability is presumably unintentional and Amazon will probably fix it.

2018-08 Crackers found a way to break the security of an Amazon device, and turn it into a listening device for them. (These crackers are probably hackers too, but please don't use hacking to mean breaking security .) 2018-07 Siri, Alexa, and all the other voice-control systems can be hijacked by programs that play commands in ultrasound that humans can't hear . 2017-09 Bad security in some cars makes it possible to remotely activate the airbags .

(Note that this article misuses the term hackers referring to crackers.) 2017-08 The bad security in many Internet of Stings devices allows ISPs to snoop on the people that use them . (It is unfortunate that the article uses the term monetize .) 2017-06 Many models of Internet-connected cameras have backdoors . That is a malicious functionality, but in addition it is a gross insecurity since anyone, including malicious crackers, can find those accounts and use them to get into users' cameras .

They have login accounts with hard-coded passwords, which can't be changed, and there is no way to delete these accounts either . 2017-06 Intel's CPU backdoor the Intel Management Engine had a major security vulnerability for 10 years . The vulnerability allowed a cracker to access the computer's Intel Active Management Technology (AMT) web interface with an empty password and gave administrative access to access the computer's keyboard, mouse, monitor among other privileges.

Thus, even users who are proactive about their security can do nothing to protect themselves besides using machines that don't come with the backdoor. 2017-05 The proprietary code that runs pacemakers, insulin pumps, and other medical devices is full of gross security faults . Furthermore, according to modzero the information-leak via Covert Storage Channel enables malware authors to capture keystrokes without taking the risk of being classified as malicious task by AV heuristics .

2017-05 Exploits of bugs in Windows, which were developed by the NSA and then leaked by the Shadowbrokers group, are now being used to attack a great number of Windows computers with ransomware . 2017-04 Many Android devices can be hijacked through their Wi-Fi chips because of a bug in Broadcom's nonfree firmware. 2017-03 When Miele's Internet of Stings hospital disinfectant dishwasher is connected to the Internet, its security is crap .

For example, a cracker can gain access to the dishwasher's filesystem, infect it with malware, and force the dishwasher to launch attacks on other devices in the network. Since these dishwashers are used in hospitals, such attacks could potentially put hundreds of lives at risk. 2017-03 The CIA exploited existing vulnerabilities in smart TVs and phones to design a malware that spies through their microphones and cameras while making them appear to be turned off .

2017-02 The mobile apps for communicating with a smart but foolish car have very bad security . (Unfortunately, the article improperly refers to crackers as hackers .) 2017-01 Samsung phones have a security hole that allows an SMS message to install ransomware . 2017-01 WhatsApp has a feature that has been described as a back door because it would enable governments to nullify its encryption.

2016-08 Due to weak security, it is easy to open the doors of 100 million cars built by Volkswagen . 2016-08 A flaw in Internet Explorer and Edge allows an attacker to retrieve Microsoft account credentials, if the user is tricked into visiting a malicious link. 2016-07 A half-blind security critique of a tracking app: it found that blatant flaws allowed anyone to snoop on a user's personal data .

2016-07 A vulnerability in Apple's Image I/O API allowed an attacker to execute malicious code from any application which uses this API to render a certain kind of image file . 2016-07 A bug in a proprietary ASN.1 library, used in cell phone towers as well as cell phones and routers, allows taking control of those systems . 2016-06 Antivirus programs have so many errors that they may make security worse .

2016-05 Samsung's Smart Home has a big security hole; unauthorized people can remotely control it . 2016-04 A bug in the iThings Messages app allowed a malicious web site to extract all the user's messaging history . A camera that records locally on physical media, and has no network connection, does not threaten people with surveillance neither by watching people through the camera, nor through malware in the camera.

2016-03 Over 70 brands of network-connected surveillance cameras have security bugs that allow anyone to watch through them . 2015-10 FitBit fitness trackers have a Bluetooth vulnerability that allows attackers to send malware to the devices, which can subsequently spread to computers and other FitBit trackers that interact with them. 2015-10 Self-encrypting disk drives do the encryption with proprietary firmware so you can't trust it.

2015-08 Security researchers discovered a vulnerability in diagnostic dongles used for vehicle tracking and insurance that let them take remote control of a car or lorry using an SMS. 2015-06 Due to bad security in a drug pump, crackers could use it to kill patients . This leaves personal information like email addresses, passwords, and health information vulnerable.

2015-05 Hospira infusion pumps, which are used to administer drugs to a patient, were rated least secure IP device I've ever seen by a security researcher. Depending on what drug is being infused, the insecurity could open the door to murder. 2015-04 Mac OS X had an intentional local back door for 4 years , which could be exploited by attackers to gain root privileges.

2014-05 An app to prevent identity theft (access to personal data) by storing users' data on a special server was deactivated by its developer which had discovered a security flaw. Quite the contrary: confiding your data to someone else's server, if not first encrypted by you with free software, undermines your rights. 2013-12 Some flash memories have modifiable software , which makes them vulnerable to viruses.

This reinforces the point that you can never trust the security of nonfree software. 2013-09 The FTC punished a company for making webcams with bad security so that it was easy for anyone to watch through them . This makes any system vulnerable to persistent attacks that normal forensics won't detect.

2012-12 Crackers found a way to break security on a smart TV and use its camera to watch the people who are watching TV. 2011-03 It is possible to take control of some car computers through malware in music files . BACK TO TOP &#9650; Proprietary malware All items added since 2018 By type Addictions Back doors Censorship Coercion Coverups Deception DRM Fraud Incompatibility = Insecurity = Interference Jails Manipulation Obsolescence Sabotage Subscriptions Surveillance Tethers Tyrants In the pipe By product Appliances Cars Conferencing EdTech Games Mobiles Webpages By company Adobe Amazon Apple Google HP Microsoft Articles UHD Blu-ray Denies Your Freedom &#9650; BACK TO TOP Set language Available for this page: [en] English [es] español [fr] français [it] italiano [ja] 日本語 [pt-br] português [ru] русский BACK TO TOP &#9650; The Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a nonprofit with a worldwide mission to promote computer user freedom.